feat: add details to Analytics migration guide (#6805)
aws-amplify/docs: src/pages/[platform]/build-a-backend/more-features/analytics/analytics-migration-guide/index.mdx

  };
}

This guide will help you migrate Amplify JavaScript v5's Analytics APIs to the new v6's Analytics APIs.

As of v6 of Amplify, you will now import APIs directly from the `aws-amplify/analytics` path when using the Pinpoint provider. If you are using the Personalize, Kinesis, or Kinesis (Stream) provider, you will need to import separate APIs from the appropriate subpath (ie `import { record } from 'aws-amplify/analytics/personalize'` when using the `record` API with the `AmazonPersonalize` provider) instead of passing in the `provider` or `options.provider` parameter.

> <Callout>TODO: The `startSession` API has been removed in v6. (Due to auto-track capabilities?)</Callout>

Reviewer: What's the status on this?

Author: Waiting on some team input here, will update when I get some clarification.

## Enable and Disable

> In both v5 and v6, Analytics is enabled by default. You can disable and enable all Analytics providers using the `enable` and `disable` APIs exported from the `aws-amplify/analytics` path.

Reviewer 2: Should Analytics be treated as a singular named category or a plural noun here? I am genuinely uncertain

Author: I think singular named category (the Analytics category), but it's kind of acting as an adjective/descriptor here.

Author: I think singular named category would be correct here. I could make it more clear by saying The Analytics category is enabled?

Author: Google treats it as a singular named category as well.

<BlockSwitcher>
  <Block name="V6">
    ```ts
    import { enable, disable } from 'aws-amplify/analytics';

    // disable all Analytics providers (enabled by default)
    disable();

    // enable all Analytics providers
    enable();
    ```

  </Block>
  <Block name="V5">    
    ```ts
    import { Analytics } from 'aws-amplify';

    Analytics.disable();

    Analytics.enable();
    ```

  </Block>
</BlockSwitcher>

## Pinpoint

In v6, `provider` is determined by import path. To use Pinpoint APIs you will import them directly from `aws-amplify/analytics`. These APIs no longer accept parameters specific to Kinesis or Personalize.

### Analytics.record

The `record` API in v6 has not changed in behavior, however, there are a couple of changes to be aware of in v6:

> - The `record` API is now synchronous and does not return as events are always buffered.

Reviewer 2: Does not return what?

Author: Promise<unknown>, I'll try to clarify in the verbiage.

> - The `immediate` option was removed from the `record` API in v6. Alternatively in v6 you can use the [flushEvents API](/[platform]/build-a-backend/more-features/analytics/record-events/#flush-events) to clear all events from the buffer before calling `record`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The `immediate` option was removed from the `record` API in v6. Instead, you can now use the [flushEvents API](/[platform]/build-a-backend/more-features/analytics/record-events/#flush-events) to clear all events from the buffer before calling `record`.
```
